README.md, before:

#Course : Taming bigdata with apache spark - Hands on

## Apache spark

* massive data processing
* python programming language
* 15 hands on spark python scripts
* business problems into spark problesm, work on spark problem and analyse.
	- movies data : movie recommendations
	- superheroes data : find degrees of separation

## Java Installation 
    follow the standard steps for installting java from oracle's website. 
    
## Spark installation(Mac Os) :
Resource : http://media.sundog-soft.com/spark-python-install.pdf

    brew install apache-spark

    cd /usr/local/Cellar/apache-spark/2.2.0/libexec/conf
    cp log4j.properties.template log4j.properties

    Edit the log4j.properties file and change the log level from INFO to ERROR on log4j.rootCategory.

## Verification of the installation :

    cd ‘some directory’
    pyspark
    rdd = sc.textFile("README.md")
    rdd.count()
    quit()


## Python Installation :
Use anaconda distribution of python. I am working with python 2.7
use conda tool to install pyspark module. 
    
    conda install pyspark


# Introduction to spark : 
    
    what is spark : a fast and general engine for large-scale data processing
    divide and conquer - split large data into multiple machines and process them parallely.
   
    Run programs upto 100x faster than Hadoop MapReduce in memory, or 10x faster on disk.
    
    DAG engine (directed acyclic graph) optimizes workflows
    
    Code in Python,Java, or Scala
    
    Built around one main concept : the Resilient Distributed Dataset (RDD)
    
    Transforming RDD's : 
        map : transforms each element of an RDD into one new element.
        flatmap : can create many new elements from each one
        filter
        distinct
        sample
        union, intersection, subtract, cartesian 
    Actions on RDD's :  
        collect
        count
        countByValue
        take
        top
        reduce
        
    Key-Value RDD
    Filters
    ReduceByKey
    
    Broadcast variables / Broadcast object

Commit message:

updating readme on the summary of spark fundamental, practical concepts

README.md, after:

#Course : Taming bigdata with apache spark - Hands on

## Apache spark

* massive data processing
* python programming language
* 15 hands on spark python scripts
* business problems into spark problesm, work on spark problem and analyse.
	- movies data : movie recommendations
	- superheroes data : find degrees of separation

## Java Installation 
    follow the standard steps for installting java from oracle's website. 
    
## Spark installation(Mac Os) :
Resource : http://media.sundog-soft.com/spark-python-install.pdf

    brew install apache-spark

    cd /usr/local/Cellar/apache-spark/2.2.0/libexec/conf
    cp log4j.properties.template log4j.properties

    Edit the log4j.properties file and change the log level from INFO to ERROR on log4j.rootCategory.

## Verification of the installation :

    cd ‘some directory’
    pyspark
    rdd = sc.textFile("README.md")
    rdd.count()
    quit()


## Python Installation :
Use anaconda distribution of python. I am working with python 2.7
use conda tool to install pyspark module. 
    
    conda install pyspark


# Introduction to spark : 
    
    what is spark : a fast and general engine for large-scale data processing
    divide and conquer - split large data into multiple machines and process them parallely.
   
    Run programs upto 100x faster than Hadoop MapReduce in memory, or 10x faster on disk.
    
    DAG engine (directed acyclic graph) optimizes workflows
    
    Code in Python,Java, or Scala
    
    Built around one main concept : the Resilient Distributed Dataset (RDD)
    
    Transforming RDD's : 
        map : transforms each element of an RDD into one new element.
        flatmap : can create many new elements from each one
        filter
        distinct
        sample
        union, intersection, subtract, cartesian 
    Actions on RDD's :  
        collect
        count
        countByValue
        take
        top
        reduce
        
    Key-Value RDD
    Filters
    ReduceByKey
    
    Broadcast variables / Broadcast object : share information efficiently across all the nodes of the cluster. 
    
    Accumulator : allows many executors to increment a shared variable 
        - Breadth-First-Search
    Lazy Evaluation 
    
    SparkConf().setMaster("local[*]") : executors use all the cores we got, instead of running on a single one.
    
    Use rdd.cache() or rdd.persist() when performing more than 1 action on an rdd. 
        cache() caches in memory.
        persist() persists to disk instead of just memory, just in case a node fails or something.
    
    Use cases : 
        simple : 
            word count
            most popular movie in a dataset.
            frequency distribution, histograms
        involved : 
            Item based collaborative filtering
            Degrees of separation in a social network.
            Movie similarity
     
    Elastic Map Reduce : running spark on a cluster
